[DOC] Rel Notes 3.4.0 (#4519)
percona/pmm: documentation/docs/release-notes/3.4.0.md

## Release summary

This release improves enterprise deployments and monitoring reliability, including better OpenShift support and centralized `vmagent` management. It also enhances RDS tracking, adds RHEL 10 compatibility, and delivers key dashboard updates and bug fixes.

## Release highlights

### OpenShift support for PMM Server

Building on the existing OpenShift compatibility available for PMM Client, PMM 3.4.0 now extends full support to PMM Server as well. All PMM Docker images meet Red Hat certification requirements, including non-root user execution and SecurityContextConstraints (SCC) support. This means that you can seamlessly deploy both PMM Client and PMM Server in OpenShift environments.

While OpenShift 4.16 is fully tested and supported, other versions will likely work but not guaranteed. 

> To deploy PMM Server on OpenShift using the standard Percona Helm charts with platform-specific parameters, see the [Install PMM Server on your Kubernetes cluster/Openshift clusters](../install-pmm/install-pmm-server/deployment-options/helm/index.md).

Reviewer: Minor `Openshift` typo here

For detailed steps, see [Migrating PMM from VMware to alternative platforms](../pmm-upgrade/migrating_from_vmware.md).

## Improvements

- [PMM-14194](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-14194): Custom filter groups in Query Analytics (QAN) now correctly distinguish between intentional comments and quoted strings containing comment-like characters. Previously, queries with values like `street = '123 Main St # app=something'` would incorrectly generate unwanted custom filters. 

    Now, only genuine SQL comments such as `-- app='web', team='backend'` create filter options in the **PMM Query Analytics** dashboard sidebar. This means that you get cleaner query categorization when [comment parsing](/documentation/docs/use/qan/panels/filters.md#custom-filter-groups) is enabled.

- [PMM-14048](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-14048): Reorganized MongoDB dashboards for better usability. The **MongoDB PBM Details** and **PBM Backup Details** dashboards are now available directly from the main navigation for easier access, while the **MongoDB InMemory Details** and **MongoDB WiredTiger Details** dashboards are now relocated to **Other Dashboards**.

> - [PMM-13990](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13990): MongoDB monitoring now uses less CPU resources on your systems. We've optimized how the MongoDB exporter collects metrics, reducing its CPU usage by over 10% without affecting the data you see in dashboards.

Reviewer 2: I tested this one (more for functionality, not the specific numbers). I think we can frame it as a general improvement to how we scrape without the "percentage increase". I'll leave a suggestion.

For detailed steps, see [Migrating PMM from VMware to alternative platforms](../pmm-upgrade/migrating_from_vmware.md).

## Improvements

- [PMM-14194](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-14194): Custom filter groups in Query Analytics (QAN) now correctly distinguish between intentional comments and quoted strings containing comment-like characters. Previously, queries with values like `street = '123 Main St # app=something'` would incorrectly generate unwanted custom filters. 

    Now, only genuine SQL comments such as `-- app='web', team='backend'` create filter options in the **PMM Query Analytics** dashboard sidebar. This means that you get cleaner query categorization when [comment parsing](/documentation/docs/use/qan/panels/filters.md#custom-filter-groups) is enabled.

- [PMM-14048](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-14048): Reorganized MongoDB dashboards for better usability. The **MongoDB PBM Details** and **PBM Backup Details** dashboards are now available directly from the main navigation for easier access, while the **MongoDB InMemory Details** and **MongoDB WiredTiger Details** dashboards are now relocated to **Other Dashboards**.

> - [PMM-13990](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13990): MongoDB monitoring now uses less CPU resources on your systems. We've optimized how the MongoDB exporter collects metrics, reducing its CPU usage by over 10% without affecting the data you see in dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [PMM-13990](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-13990): Improved MongoDB exporter performance by caching regular expression operations. Previously, the exporter repeatedly compiled the same regular expressions during metric collection, causing unnecessary CPU overhead. Now, these regex patterns are cached and reused, reducing the MongoDB exporter's CPU usage without affecting monitoring data quality.
```
